[Concept Entry] PyTorch nn (#4857)
Codecademy/docs: content/pytorch/concepts/nn/nn.md

---
Title: 'PyTorch nn'
Description: 'Build and train neural network models with a range of layers, activations, loss functions and optimisation algorithms.'
Subjects:
  - 'Machine Learning'
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'AI'
Tags:
  - 'AI'
  - 'Neural Networks'
CatalogContent:
  - 'paths/data-science'
---

## Introduction

> The **`nn module`** in PyTorch provides the foundation to build and train neural network models. It contains various layers, activation functions, loss functions, and optimization algorithms that enable the creation of complex deep-learning models. The `nn module` is highly customizable, enabling developers to construct neural network architectures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `**torch.nn**` module in PyTorch provides the foundation for building and training neural network models. It includes a wide range of pre-built layers, activation functions, loss functions, and other components necessary for creating complex deep-learning models. The `torch.nn` module is highly flexible and customizable, allowing developers to design and implement neural network architectures tailored to specific tasks.
```

## Syntax

The primary way to define a neural network model in PyTorch is as follows:

```pseudo

> import torch.nn as nn
> 
> # Define a neural network model
> class NeuralNetwork(nn.Module):
>   def __init__(self):
>     super(NeuralNetwork, self).__init__()
>     # Define layers, activations, and other components
> 
>   def forward(self, x):
>     # Implement forward pass of model
>     return output
> 
>   # Define other methods where necessary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import torch.nn as nn

# Define a neural network model
class NeuralNetwork(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self):
        super(NeuralNetwork, self).__init__()
        # Define layers, activations, and other components here
        # For example: self.layer1 = nn.Linear(in_features, out_features)

    def forward(self, x):
        # Implement the forward pass of the model
        # For example: x = self.layer1(x)
        return x  # Replace 'x' with the final output after applying all layers

    # Define other methods if necessary
```

---
Title: 'PyTorch nn'
Description: 'Build and train neural network models with a range of layers, activations, loss functions and optimisation algorithms.'
Subjects:
  - 'Machine Learning'
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'AI'
Tags:
  - 'AI'
  - 'Neural Networks'
CatalogContent:

>   - 'paths/data-science'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - 'intro-to-py-torch-and-neural-networks'
  - 'py-torch-for-classification'
```

---

## Introduction

The **`nn module`** in PyTorch provides the foundation to build and train neural network models. It contains various layers, activation functions, loss functions, and optimization algorithms that enable the creation of complex deep-learning models. The `nn module` is highly customizable, enabling developers to construct neural network architectures.

## Syntax

The primary way to define a neural network model in PyTorch is as follows:

```pseudo
import torch.nn as nn

# Define a neural network model
class NeuralNetwork(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self):
        super(NeuralNetwork, self).__init__()
        # Define layers, activations, and other components here
        # For example: self.layer1 = nn.Linear(in_features, out_features)

    def forward(self, x):
        # Implement the forward pass of the model
        # For example: x = self.layer1(x)
        return x  # Replace 'x' with the final output after applying all layers

    # Define other methods if necessary
```

- `NetworkNeural`: A custom neural network class that subclasses the `nn.Module`.

## Example

> The following example demonstrates how to define a simple neural network model using the `nn.Module`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example demonstrates how to define a simple neural network model using the `nn.Module` with two fully connected layers, apply a ReLU activation function to the first layer's output, and create an instance of the model:
```

---
Title: 'PyTorch nn'
Description: 'Build and train neural network models with a range of layers, activations, loss functions and optimisation algorithms.'
Subjects:
  - 'Machine Learning'
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'AI'
Tags:
  - 'AI'
  - 'Neural Networks'
CatalogContent:
  - 'paths/data-science'
---

## Introduction

> The **`nn module`** in PyTorch provides the foundation to build and train neural network models. It contains various layers, activation functions, loss functions and optimisation algorithms that enable the creation of complex deep learning models. The **`nn module`** is highly customisable, enabling developers to construct their own neural network architectures.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The **`nn module`** in PyTorch provides the foundation to build and train neural network models. It contains various layers, activation functions, loss functions, and optimization algorithms that enable the creation of complex deep-learning models. The `nn module` is highly customizable, enabling developers to construct neural network architectures.
```
Do not use personal pronouns

## Syntax

The primary way to define a neural network model in PyTorch is as follows:

```pseudo
import torch.nn as nn

# Define a neural network model
class NeuralNetwork(nn.Module):
  def __init__(self):
    super(NeuralNetwork, self).__init__()
    # Define layers, activations, and other components

  def forward(self, x):
    # Implement forward pass of model
    return output

  # Define other methods where necessary
```

- `NetworkNeural`: A custom neural network class that subclasses the `nn.Module`.

## Example

The following example demonstrates how to define a simple neural network model using the `nn.Module`:

```python
import torch
import torch.nn as nn

class SimpleNN(nn.Module):
  def __init__(self):
    super(SimpleNN, self).__init__()
    self.fc1 = nn.Linear(10, 5)
    self.fc2 = nn.Linear(5, 1)

  def forward(self, x):
    x = torch.relu(self.fc1(x))
    x = self.fc2(x)
    return x

# Create a model instance
model = SimpleNN()
```

> ## Codebyte Example

Reviewer 3: You can remove this section as codecademy workspace is not compatible with pytorch yet, so this codebyte won't run.
